---
eleventyNavigation:
  key: Internationalization (i18n)
  title: '<i class="fa-solid fa-language"></i>Internationalization (i18n)'
  order: 1
  excerpt: Utilities to manage pages and linking between localized content on Eleventy projects.
communityLinksKey: i18n
hideRelatedLinks: true
overrideCommunityLinks: true
---

# Internationalization (I18n) {% addedin "2.0.0-canary.13" %}

{% tableofcontents %}

{% callout "info", "md" %}**Required reading:** the [Eleventy docs page on Internationalization (I18n)](/docs/i18n/) provides crucial context on project organization and URL strategies for multi-language projects. Please review it before continuing on here.{% endcallout %}

{{ eleventyNavigation.excerpt }}

Note that this plugin specifically helps you manage links between content but does _not_ localize that content’s strings, numbers, dates, etc. You’ll likely want to pick a third-party library for this! A few popular choices include [`eleventy-plugin-i18n`](https://github.com/adamduncan/eleventy-plugin-i18n), [`rosetta`](https://github.com/lukeed/rosetta), [`i18next`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/i18next), [`y18n`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/y18n), [`intl-messageformat`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/intl-messageformat), and [LinguiJS](https://lingui.js.org/tutorials/javascript.html).

<div class="youtube-related">
  {%- youtubeEmbed "sfPNgt3joWI", "Internationalization (i18n) Plugin (Weekly №16)", "1122" -%}
</div>

## Installation

The Internationalization (i18n) plugin is bundled with Eleventy and does not require separate installation. Available in version `{{ "2.0.0-canary.13" | coerceVersion }}` or newer.

If you don’t yet have an Eleventy project, go through the [Get Started Guide first](/docs/) and come back here when you’re done!

### Add to your configuration file

{% include "snippets/plugins/i18n-install.njk" %}

<details>
<summary>Expand to see the full list of advanced options</summary>

{% include "snippets/plugins/i18n-install-options.njk" %}

</details>

## Usage

This plugin provides two [universal filters](/docs/filters/) (Nunjucks, Liquid, 11ty.js) and one addition to the `page` variable.

### `page.lang`

Adding the i18n plugin to your project will make `page.lang` available to your templates. This represents the language tag for the current page template, and will default to the value you’ve passed to the plugin via `defaultLanguage` above.

Check out [the rest of the data available on the `page` object](/docs/data-eleventy-supplied/).

### `locale_url` Filter

Accepts any arbitrary URL string and transforms it using the current page’s locale. Works as expected if the URL already contains a language code. This is most useful in any shared code used by internationalized content (layouts, partials, includes, etc).

{% include "snippets/plugins/i18nlocaleurl.njk" %}

If the link argument already has a valid language code, it will be swapped. The following all return `/en/blog/` when rendered in `/en/*` templates (or `/es/blog/` in `/es/*` templates):

{% raw %}

- `{{ "/blog/" | locale_url }}`
- `{{ "/en/blog/" | locale_url }}`
- `{{ "/es/blog/" | locale_url }}`
  {% endraw %}

{% callout "info", "md" -%}
It’s important to note that this filter _checks for the existence of the file_ in the target locale. If the specific content file in the target locale does not exist, an error will be thrown! You can change this behavior using the plugin’s `errorMode` option (see advanced usage above).
{% endcallout %}

It’s unlikely that you’ll need to but you _can_ override the root locale with a second argument:

{% include "snippets/plugins/i18nlocaleurl-arg.njk" %}

### `locale_links` Filter

Returns an array of the relevant alternative content for a specified URL (or, defaults to the current page). The original page passed to the filter is _not_ included in the results. Each array entry is an object with `url`, `lang`, and (localized) `label` properties, for example:

```json
[{ "url": "/es/blog/", "lang": "es", "label": "Español" }]
```

#### “This page also available in:” Example

{% include "snippets/plugins/i18nexample.njk" %}

Renders as:

```html
This page is also available in <a href="/es/blog/" lang="es" hreflang="es">Español</a>
```

#### `<link rel="alternate">` Example

Here’s another example in a layout file.

The `href` attributes here must be fully qualified (include the full domain with the protocol). Read more on the [Google Search Central documentation](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/advanced/crawling/localized-versions).

{% callout "info", "md" %}The top level `lang` data property used here is most commonly set by you in the data cascade. For example: `/en/en.json` with `{"lang": "en"}` and `/es/es.json` with `{"lang": "es"}`.{% endcallout %}

{% include "snippets/plugins/i18nalternate.njk" %}

### Using with [`get*CollectionItem` filters](/docs/filters/collection-items/)

The `getPreviousCollectionItem`, `getNextCollectionItem` and `getCollectionItem` filters all provide a mechanism to retrieve a specific collection item from a collection.

The i18n plugin modifies the behavior of these filters to prefer a collection item in the current page language’s _without requiring any changes to your project_.

For example, assume that English (`en`) is the default language for your project. Assume we’ve configured all of the blog posts in `/en/blog/*.md` to have the `post` tag, placing them into a `post` collection. Now you want to provide alternative localized versions of this blog post, so you create the following files:

- `/es/blog/my-blog-post.md`
- `/ja/blog/my-blog-post.md`

Using the above filters on these localized templates will automatically prefer `/en/blog/my-blog-post.md` as the root collection item when navigating the collection. This allows you to do things like:

{% codetitle "Nunjucks", "Syntax" %}
{% raw %}

```njk
{%- set nextPost = collections.post | getNextCollectionItem %}
{%- if nextPost %}<a href="{{ nextPost.url | locale_url }}">Next post</a>{% endif %}
```

{% endraw %}

This will _prefer_ a localized version of the next post’s URL (Spanish pages will prefer linking to other pages in Spanish, when available). If a localized version does not exist, it will fall back to the default language instead.
